Hello and welcome back to the course on augmented random search.
And in today's tutorial we're talking about the method of finite differences.
Now bear in mind that this is an advanced tutorial so feel free to skip it and proceed with the other
intuition tutorials and the practical tutorials.
And that should be totally sufficient for you to have a good grasp of what area is all about and code.
Along with the code I'd love.
However if you would like to proceed with historial then feel free to do so.
But be prepared that we are going to be some complex topics that we going to be covering of and therefore
it might take some time and it might be a bit harder to get your head around than usual.
Definitely took me quite a bit of thinking to wrap my own head around this.
So yeah that's that's my view although you might find it very easy on the other hand.
All right so let's have a look.
The method of finite differences.
How does this work.
So this is where we left off last time.
We have the AI that's performing these episodes.
It's so every episode is from start to finish where there is falls over time or runs out or reaches
a certain goal and basically after the episode is finished the AI takes the reward from the environment
and uses that reward to make adjustments to the weights in order to understand how to become better
how to evolve how to work better how to run better how to do all the things that are required from it
better.
And so today we're going to discuss how exactly does it use this reward to adjust its weight.
What is the principle in doing this for the Erris.
Now before we proceed what I wanted to mention is that the environment actually provides a reward after
every single action not just at the end of an episode but after every single action and that has nothing
to do with the algorithm itself because the environment is separate.
This for instance the Mujica environment is coded is prepared and anybody can apply any kind of model
to it and we'll talk more about this in one of the final tutorials in intuition part of the course.
But I just wanted to make sure that we're on the same page that they don't actually provide rewards
after every action.
The arrest algorithm actually chooses to work with that aggregate report a reward for the whole episode.
Again we'll we'll discuss this a bit further down but just a heads up on that.
So really going to affect us right now.
For now we just know that there was an episode the AI model went from from the start to towards the
finish or somewhere there and then it got a reward for that.
And so basically the further the AI managed to walk the higher the reward will be the longer it managed
to stay upright the higher the reward will be and the faster it walked the higher reward will be.
Again depends on the environment itself.
But conceptually the more the court the closer the AI is to what we want it to do the higher the reward
the further away it is.
If it's falling all right at the start it was going to be very low.
All right.
So we get a reward.
We are just the it is.
Let's talk about how exactly do I just do it.
Now there are different ways of doing this.
For example usually in artificial intelligence what is used is called the gradient descent method.
And it is a method in which we take a direct calculation of the differentiation of the loss.
For instance over the weight or in this case it would be the reward.
We differentiate the reward over the weights but that's something that were other artificial intelligence
our use.
And for example if you've been in our artificial intelligence a dessert course and we discussed that
in detail we're not going to dive into it here because the Erris actually use something else called
the method of finite differences and the formulas over here.
So it's not actually proper differentiation it's something else.
So that's what we're going to be talking about today.
All right let's have a look at some point during the training process.
The artificial intelligence that our aerosol urine has this matrix of weights as rediscuss is a perception
it has a matrix of weights and those weights are applied to the inputs or there's a matrix operation
applied to the inputs with these weights and then we get the outputs.
And so during the training process how will the AI know how to update these weights.
What what will it.
What will its next weights be.
And so what the aerosol algorithm does is it takes perturbations like very tiny perturbations of these
weights.
So basically takes a set of random numbers or a matrix with random small small tiny values and it adds
them to these weights.
And on the other hand it subtracts them from these weights.
So basically it's the same values but in one case the matrix is added in case and subtract.
And so as a result we have two new matrices with perturbative weights so the weights are the same but
not exactly just slightly different.
So these weights are here all slightly larger than the ones we had just before.
And these are all slightly smaller than the ones we had before.
And also there's actually a coefficient here the coefficients called acceleration noise.
We're not going to add it here so that we don't clutter up our calculations you are going to have it
though you'll see in the research paper and you also have it in the practical tutorials so not to worry
we're not going to leave it out completely just for the sake of simplicity and the intuition part of
things.
All right so now that we have these perturbative waits what happens next.
Well in reality we actually have several sets of these perturbative weights.
So we're going to replace these values with the letter D.
So there it is.
That's our positive report perturbative waits.
And here are negative it negatively perturbative weights and then we actually have several sets of these.
So in practical terms you'll see that we actually have 16 sets.
So 32 in total we have 16 positive and 60 negative and they all have the letter D but they have another
index I didn't want to clutter up so I just use different letters so we have D E F G.
And here we have negative deid negative negative negative G.
And so now we have in the case of our intuition tutorials we have eight matrices of perturbative weights
again these weights are very similar to what we had just previously in the training process are they.
But they're slightly different slightly larger or slightly smaller and smaller.
So what is the AIU going to do.
What is there going to do now.
Was going to run an episode with each one of these weights.
So the this matrix of weights will get its own episode this matrix of weights will get its own episode
this matrix of weights will get its own episode and so on.
And so as you can see the image is the same here but in reality is just to illustrate that this matrix
of weights is run with its own opposite.
In reality the image will be different so every time we see the humanoid doing different action because
these these weights as we remember through the matrix operation provide the outputs and outputs tell
the humanoid which muscles to move should it move its legs should move its hands or arms or feet or
neck or whatever shoulders back and so out of all of its 22 degrees of freedom.
And so basically every time is going to be slightly different resolved maybe maybe even drastically
different because maybe some some of these might make a small change in ways that might make a huge
change in the outcome.
So thats what is happening and in reality I wanted to make common here that is just one.
So each one of these ways is perturbative sense of where its going to get.
Just like one episode is actually going to get quite of like a whole cycle of episodes to run with these
weights and then it's all going to be averaged out.
You'll see that in the research paper and you'll see that in the practical terms of unknowns as well.
But for our intuition purposes which is going to stick with one episode so these weights these Wadewitz
are going to have one episode of the AI kind of like floating quotations of quote unquote playing the
environment playing in the environment to see how far it can go.
And then the same the same with these with these in some cases as you can tell as you can imagine the
result will be better than with the original set of weights which was w 1 1 1 2 and so on.
Without the perturbations some cases the result will be better in some case the result will be worse
maybe you might be worse you might better might be better might better might be better might be worse
and so on.
We can't predict yet but what will tell us how the result went.
Are the rewards.
So in each case we'll get a reward.
So in this case for instance ardy pause RDNA are are you Paul are in eg.
RF pause.
R f neg.
RG pause are.
Gina.
And by the way this neg doesn't mean that it's negative where it just stands to signify that this reward
is associated with this negative perturbation of weights and this reward is associated with this positive
perturbation of.
So all of these are in the the letter that's used usually is D.
So Delta.
So these are positive delta these a negative deltas positive deltas negative Delton's positive as negative.
I just use some other letters as well.
And so that's what we have we have these perturbations of weight.
Let's recap we have we had original set of weights the double use.
Now we have positive perturbation here net and negative perturbation positive perturbation same prediction
but negative here positive perturbations say.
But you posit perturbation same but if you average one we've run an episode and we got a reward.
There are these rewards are illusory.
Now what's the AI going to do with all this information of all of these rewards all these ways.
How is it going to decide what good was that.
Well we were it established that some of these perturbations are going to be in the right direction.
Some of these producers are going to yield better results than before like it's because we're searching
randomly and that's why the hologram is actually called the random search because we're randomly searching
for new weights.
We're searching.
OK.
Maybe these will work better maybe it is or maybe these will work better.
Maybe these will work.
And so the let's say these worked very well.
And now how do we know.
So the reward was very puzzled how do we adjust our actual weights.
This is just oleic like a little exercise they do.
But now it needs to finally adjust the weights.
Right so it needs to decide how we're going to adjust the way.
Well let's see how the eyes are going to pick out the best results out of all of these examples that
it has.
And this is where the formula comes in the formula for the method of finite differences.
All right.
So this is probably the most complex part of this whole practical as we can get through this.
You can get through the whole Arison no problem.
So here we've got the weights the initial weights.
They're going to be overridden.
So we've got to put a new value in them and we're going to put in there is we're going to put in the
same weight that we had plus a certain cerned Delta Delta CRN change a certain adjustment.
So basically as you see we just taking the old ways were overriding with them with themselves plus something
small but some some adjustments and this adjustment is going to be obviously calculated from this.
So from all of these experiments that the AI has done is going to calculate adjustment and adjust the
existing weights in the direction that turned out to be the most the most the most the best results
the most lucrative direction of adjusting the width.
How is it going to find that direction.
Well it's going to apply the following format which is the method of finite differences we're going
to take our day positive a minus R R D negative and multiply by the Delta participations for D then
we're going to take r e positive minus our negative and multiply by that Delta perturbations for E.
We're going to take the R of positive month subtract the R of negative multiply by the Delta perturbations
for F and then we're going to take the R.G. positive minus R.G. negative.
Multiply it by the Delta perturbations for G.
You can.
I can understand this is quite a lot to take in right away.
But let's break this down slowly go through this.
Why does this formula work.
Why is it going to make our AI evolve in the right direction.
Let's try to understand this in more detail.
So in order to understand that what I recommend doing is mentally open up these brackets.
So if you take this ARDE positive and you multiply if you open this bracket then what you'll have is
already positive multiplied by this minus R.G. negative multiplied by this again.
Right and simplest things here are positive multiplied by this matrix minus are in negative multiply
by this matrix and so on.
But let's focus on this first part what that will mean is that we're taking that original set of weights
and we're adding the word to beta the perturbations Delta perturbations.
But we're not just adding them we're adding them multiplied by R.G. positive.
And then we're also subtract subtracting the Delta positive perturbations.
But we're not just subtracting them we're subtracting them multiplied by R.G. negative.
And so if we go back to this result over here basically what we're doing is instead of just adding the
Delta Delta like they are here they're added but with a coefficient of d positive and instead of subtracting
the Deltas as they are here they are subtracted.
But with a coefficient of R.G. negative.
And what that means is that basically if we didn't have any of these if these conditions are the same
that would cancel each other out you know plus minus would cancel each other.
But because these rewards are different because for instance the say This reward is much greater for
example could be like a hundred for example.
That's just making up numbers here has nothing do with reality.
But if this was like 100 or stand then that means this result is orders of disorder where we reward
is 100 risk reward is 1.
So that means this result is a hundred times better than this one.
And that's why we want to move 100 times more in the direction of the positive part to purchase nations
then in the direction of the negative perturbations.
And same for all of these.
So basically where we're essentially doing the same exact operation we're adding or subtracting.
But with the coefficient with a coefficient which equals to the reward that the AI was given by the
environment for that specific experiment.
So this experiment had a greater reward then the AI is going to evolve in that direction with a huge
coefficient.
If this experiment had a bad reward very low reward then it is going to evolve in that direction to
follow.
We're very low coefficient So that's all it is.
So if we go back here if you open up the brackets that's exactly what's going on.
We're taking the weight.
And we were performing the experiments that we did.
But all at the same time and with coefficients to make sure that or as we did the experiments we know
which ones yielded great rewards which you don't feel not so great.
So let's let's let those rewards guide the evolution of the artificial intelligence.
And that's why it's called.
On one hand it's called the random search algorithm because you're searching for these perturbations
randomly.
On the other hand it's also called the evolution strategies algorithm because you're evolving as a strategy
of how to evolve the artificial intelligence.
So that's all it is.
And then in addition to that there's also another confusion here.
I didn't include it on purpose.
It's the learning rate divided by the number of these perturbations that we have included so that the
slider wouldn't be cluttered up too much.
But don't worry it is in the research paper and it is it will be in your practical tutorials we're going
to have that connection there.
OK.
So that's in a nutshell how the Airbus algorithm works.
This method is called the metho fight differences.
This is the intuition behind it.
So we have positive perturbations negative perturbations we get certain rewards for the positive for
the negative and then we apply all of those perturbations so that we run those experiments we find out
the rewards and then we apply those perturbations to update the weights but we take into account the
rewards that we got in the experiments so that our AI is evolving in the best possible direction the
best direction that we found that we search for.
And so that's Erris in a nutshell.
The research paper talks more about this in in detail and that's another reason why to jump into it
and this is finally where we're going to reference it.
This is the research paper by Horia mania and Ereli guy and their supervisor been wrecked.
And this paper is called a simple random search provides a competitive approach to reinforcement learning.
It's 2018.
It's very recent.
You find it in the course notes also on archive.
So you'll find the same link on the course not where you just click on it.
It's also an archive just like that.
Finally after all what we've discussed about A.S. we are ready to proceed with this research paper so
I highly recommend checking out.
Very interesting.
Interesting the riddle and I'm sure that these tutorials that you've successfully completed a review
in this course are going to help guide you through this research paper and plus you going to be actually
walking through it when you're coding for lunch is going to be walking you through the research paper
and you're going to be quoting it together so this is a good opportunity to get a preview of what is
to come.
I hope you enjoyed this tutorial.
Congratulations on powering through.
That was the most the most complex tutorial yet in this course.
And I look forward to seeing you back here next time.
Until then enjoy AI.